{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23200\viewh21680\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Dear ***,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Joe Harris (Harvard) and I have been working for some time on a textbook about algebraic curves, and I'm writing to see whether you would be interested in\'a0publishing\'a0it. I attach the current draft, which is largely complete in terms of material, but still needs considerable polishing.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Our goal is to introduce a reader who already has some background in algebraic geometry to some of the fundamental problems and methods of the subject. The early chapters review and complete what the reader might have learned in a first course. In chapter 1 we treat the relationship between divisors, linear series, invertible sheaves, and morphisms to projective space, which are essentially descriptions of different aspects of the same thing. In chapter 2 we prove and discuss the canonical sheaf and the Riemann-Roch theorem, as well as some first applications. This is material that often occurs at the very end of a first course, too late to include its beautiful applications.\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The successive chapters more or less alternate between the study of morphisms from curves of a particular genus, and chunks of basic theory: the Jacobian, the Hilbert scheme, the moduli space of curves, the inflectionary study of curves, the Severi variety, linkage of curves in 3-space... . Two chapters are devoted to Brill-Noether theory and a simple proof of the Brill-Noether Theorem. The last two chapters treat the ``good'' components of the Hilbert schemes of curves of low genus and degree, and then Mumford's famous example of an everywhere nonreduced component. We are preparing hints to most of the exercises, which would be included at the end of the book.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Harris has taught courses on this material at Harvard for many years, and Eisenbud has just finished a year-long course at Berkeley using and refining the manuscript.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 It you would be interested in\'a0publishing\'a0the book in an appropriate series, we would like to know:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 1) Would you be willing to support our hiring Silvio Levy as editor? We would then deliver high-quality camera-ready copy, with no need for further editing on your part. Silvio proposes to charge $36/page.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2) Would you be willing to give us the right to post a pdf copy of the book on our personal websites?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Cordially,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 David Eisenbud\
\
\
Springer: elizabeth.loew@springer.com\
CAmbridge: kaitlin leach\
AMS: sergei gelfand, loretta bartolini, ina mette}